Source: https://norma.ncirl.ie/9297/1/NCI_Library_Referencing_Guide_6th_Edition.pdf
Title: NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide (6th Edition)

Shannon Mallon
Keith Brittle
Isobel Dunne
Library Academic Support Centre
NCI Library 
Referencing and Avoiding 
Plagiarism Guide
6TH EDITION

NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
01
Contents
Introduction & Foreword – 6th Edition 2025
Selecting the Best Resources to Use for Your Assignments & Research
Choosing What Information to Use
Evaluating Information
The CRAAP Test
Using Information - Paraphrasing, Summarising & Quoting
Paraphrasing
Why Paraphrase?
Paraphrasing Tips
Summarising
Quoting
The Importance of Notetaking
Tips to Remember
Academic Integrity and Avoiding Plagiarism
What is Academic Integrity?
What is Plagiarism?
Examples of Plagiarism
How Do I Avoid Plagiarism?
How is Plagiarism Detected?
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
What is Generative AI?
AI and Academic Integrity
Risks and Disadvantages of Using AI
How Can I Use AI Ethically?
Research Assistants
Using Grammar/Spelling Correction Tools
Consequences of Plagiarism and Unethical Use of AI in Your Work
The Basics of Referencing
06
07
07
08
08
09
09
10
11
11
11
12
12
13
13
14
14
15
15
17
18
18
18
20
21
21
22
23
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
02
What is Referencing?
Why Should I Reference?
When Should I Reference?
Where Do I Reference?
What Referencing Style Should I Use?
Formulating References
Reference Managers
Other Referencing Tools
Harvard Style
Getting Started
Referencing In Text
The Reference List
Harvard - Core Sources
Books
Edited Books
eBooks
Edited eBooks
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Webpages
Online News Articles/Blogs
Case Studies
Harvard – Additional Sources
Social Media - Facebook/Instagram/X/LinkedIn
Online Videos - YouTube etc.
Podcasts
Encyclopedias/Dictionaries
Legislation
Legal Cases/Law Reports
23
24
24
25
25
26
26
27
29
29
29
31
32
32
34
35
36
37
39
40
42
43
44
44
44
44
45
46
47
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
03
Theses/Dissertations
Lecture Notes/Slides
Diagrams/Charts/Images/Tables
Harvard – Additional Notes
Formulating References
Block Quotations
No Known Author
DOIs/Permalinks
Authors Referring to Other Authors – Secondary Referencing
Citing Multiple Sources In-Text – Chronological, Then Alphabetical Order
Acronyms or Abbreviations
Reference List Tips
Harvard – Sample Reference List
APA Style
Getting Started
Referencing In Text
The Reference List
APA - Core Sources
Books/eBooks
Edited Books/eBooks
Journal Articles
Conference Papers/Proceedings
Webpages
Online News Articles/Blogs
APA – Additional Sources
Psychological Tests/Scales
Social Media
Online Videos
Podcasts
48
48
48
49
49
49
49
50
51
52
52
53
55
58
58
58
60
62
62
64
65
67
69
70
70
71
71
71
72
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
04
Encyclopedias/Dictionaries
Legislation
Theses/Dissertations
Lecture Notes
Diagrams/Charts/Images/Tables
Software
APA – Additional Notes
Formulating References
Block Quotations
No Known Author
DOIs/Permalinks
Authors Referring to Other Authors – Secondary Referencing
Citing Multiple Sources In-Text – Alphabetical, Then Chronological Order
Acronyms or Abbreviations
Identical In-Text References When Shortened Using Et Al.
Reference List Tips
APA – Sample Reference List
IEEE Style
Getting Started
Referencing Format
Referencing In-Text
The Reference List
IEEE - Core Sources
Books
Edited Books
eBooks
Edited eBooks
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
73
74
75
75
75
75
76
76
76
77
77
78
79
79
79
80
81
83
83
83
83
85
86
86
88
89
90
91
93
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
05
Webpages
Online News Articles/Blogs
IEEE - Additional Sources
Datasets
Code
Software
Legislation
Patents/Standards
Preprints (ArXiv etc.)
Social Media - Facebook/X/Instagram
Online Videos
Theses/Dissertations
Diagrams/Images/Charts/Tables
IEEE – Additional Notes
Formulating References
In-Text Citations
Formatting Figures/Tables In-Text
Acronyms & Abbreviations
No Known Author
Authors Referring to Other Authors – Secondary Referencing
DOIs/Permalinks
Reference List Tips
IEEE – Sample Reference List
Help & Support
Library Academic Support Centre
94
95
96
96
96
97
97
98
99
99
100
100
100
101
101
101
102
103
104
104
104
106
107
109
109
Introduction & Foreword – 6th Edition 2025
We’re delighted to present the sixth edition of the NCI Library Referencing 
and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide. Expertly authored by Shannon Mallon, 
with valuable contributions from Keith Brittle and Isobel Dunne of 
the Library Academic Support Centre (LASC), this guide has evolved 
significantly since its first release in 2008, originally titled How to 
Reference: Harvard Style. 
In this edition, you’ll find clear guidance on how to select and evaluate 
information, understand the fundamentals of referencing, and use NCI’s 
three primary referencing styles—Harvard, APA, and IEEE. You’ll also 
discover tools and tips to support your referencing skills. 
A referencing guide is essential for students because it helps them avoid 
plagiarism by properly crediting sources, supports their arguments 
with credible evidence, and ensures consistency and professionalism in 
academic writing. It also teaches discipline-specific citation practices, 
which are crucial for scholarly communication. Using a guide correctly 
reflects strong research and writing skills. 
You may also hear about academic integrity and avoiding plagiarism in 
relation to referencing and academic writing. You can find more about 
these concepts as well as updated advice on artificial intelligence in this 
guide. 
We hope you will find this edition helpful, but remember you are always 
welcome to reach out to the Library Academic Support Centre at any 
stage of your studies at NCI for further advice and assistance with the 
topics covered in this guide.
Wishing you every success in your studies, 
Mary Buckley, Librarian, NCI, 2025 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
06
Selecting the Best Resources to Use for Your 
Assignments & Research
When writing assignments and conducting research in National College 
of Ireland, it’s necessary for you to use authentic and good quality 
information and evidence to back up your work. The types of sources 
that you read, use and reference in your assignments at NCI can seriously 
impact the quality of your work; therefore, you need to carefully select 
the sources that you are going use to back up your writing. First, you 
should prioritise the resources and readings that your lecturer has 
highlighted on their Moodle page. Secondly, you should explore further 
resources available from the library such as academic journals, textbooks 
and eBooks as these are more reliable sources to use than more random 
sources found on the internet. 
Different types of sources serve distinct functions; for example, 
a textbook will provide a broad overview of a topic or field (e.g. 
management or psychology), introducing you to important concepts 
or theory. Whereas a journal article will provide you with more specific 
information, usually the findings of a research project. Therefore, it is 
important to choose the right type of source based on your assignment 
and the information required to complete it. 
Choosing What Information to Use
When it comes to choosing information to use and reference in your 
assignments and research, try to follow the two-step process below:
1. Start with module/Moodle content such as recommended reading 
(textbooks, journal articles, reports, links in lecturer slides etc.)
2. Then ask yourself: What additional resources do you need from 
NCI library? The assignment/research task will dictate how much 
additional information you need
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
07
Following this process helps to avoid searching for more random 
information on the internet – remember many websites are not 
considered valid academic sources.
Evaluating Information 
While it is recommended that you concentrate on academic resources 
such as textbooks or journal articles for your assignments and research, it 
is likely that you will reference a variety of different source types in your 
academic work. If you do choose to reference a website or other internet 
resource, it is particularly important to be able to evaluate its credibility 
and ensure that it is a reputable source to use. 
The CRAAP Test
The CRAAP test is commonly used to evaluate information sources and is 
particularly relevant when assessing internet sources. It stands for:
Currency: Is the information up to date and recent enough for your needs?
Relevance: Does it clearly relate to your topic? Who is the intended 
audience?
Authority: Who is the author and what are their qualifications? Are they 
affiliated with a particular organisation or institution?
Accuracy: Is the information correct and supported by verifiable evidence/
references? Is the information free of grammatical and spelling errors?
Purpose: Why was the information created, to inform, sell or persuade? Is 
it objective, or is there bias? Is the author’s point of view clear?
It is important to ask questions like these about the information you use 
and to not automatically assume it is accurate or reliable. 
In addition to the above strategy, it’s important that you do not take 
information found on the internet at face value. Always seek to crossreference and cross-check the information in reputable sources to verify 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
08
if the information you are looking to use is genuine. Prioritising your 
lecturer’s recommended resources and NCI library’s resources will reduce 
the need for this type of in-depth verification.
Using Information - Paraphrasing, 
Summarising & Quoting
There are three main ways of incorporating other writers’ work into 
your own writing - you can either paraphrase, summarise or use a direct 
quotation. Regardless of which method you use, you must reference 
the original source of the information both in text and at the end of your 
work.
When you are paraphrasing, summarising or quoting information from 
another source, ensure you integrate the information into your own 
writing. This means:
● It must be relevant to your argument
● It must join neatly with what comes before and after in your own 
writing
● It must make logical and grammatical sense
Paraphrasing
Paraphrasing means taking the ideas, words or work of another and
restating the information by using different words and phrasing so that 
it is different from the original source but retains the original meaning 
– this is how you demonstrate your own unique understanding of the 
information. 
Paraphrasing is a key academic skill when using information from other 
sources and should be the most frequently used method of incorporating 
sources into your research since it shows a deeper understanding of the 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
09
material and that you have developed your own thoughts on the topic. 
While this is the most common method in academic writing you must still 
ensure that credit is given to the original source of the information by 
inserting a reference.
Why Paraphrase?
● Expressing ideas in your own words strongly supports your 
argument and shows your lecturer how well you understand the 
original material and the source being cited.
● Shows understanding of the topic and adds value to your writing 
about the topic being discussed
● Provides supporting evidence for your arguments, adding 
credibility to your ideas and work
● Improves the flow of your paper, by retaining your own tone and 
voice rather than that of your sources
A paraphrase should be a restatement of the meaning of the original text 
in your own words and not simply changing some words or sentences 
around. 
For successful paraphrasing you need to:
● Substantially change the words
● And change the grammar
The idea of the author(s) should remain the same, but the detail will be in 
your own words.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
10
Paraphrasing Tips
● Don’t copy and paste anything
● Reread the original passage until you understand its full meaning
● Set the original aside, and write a paraphrase in your own words
● Check your paraphrase against the original to ensure that your own 
words are an accurate interpretation of the original information
● Insert a reference to the original source
N.B. Only changing one or two words is NOT paraphrasing as your writing 
will still be too similar to the original source.
Summarising
Summarising involves giving a summary of the main idea(s) of the original 
text in your own words and still referencing the original source of the 
information. Summaries are generally shorter than the original and give 
your reader a broad overview of the main point(s) of the original source.
Quoting
Direct quotations should be used sparingly and only if necessary, for 
example, when giving an exact definition. If quoting, the exact wording, 
spelling and syntax of the original text must be used and the page 
number (where available) from where it was taken must be included in 
the in-text citation. Quotations must be integrated into your writing – 
either before or after, you should indicate how the quote illustrates or 
supports your point.
N.B. You should use quotations only sparingly and only to support your 
own argument NOT to replace it
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
11
The Importance of Notetaking
It is important to take notes as you read to keep track of the information 
you are using. Try to paraphrase and reference as you write, rather than 
leaving it to the end. This means you are less likely to forget to paraphrase 
or reference information and accidentally plagiarise. Always note the 
reference details of the sources you take information from – even if just 
the book title or the URL of a webpage - so that you can correctly credit 
and reference where the information came from. 
The Library Academic Support Centre’s Assignment/Research Planning 
Guidelines (available online) can be used to help you take notes and keep 
track of the sources you are using.
Tips to Remember
● Is it a quote? Reference it!
● Is it a paraphrase? Reference it!
● Is it another person’s idea/theory/image? Reference it!
N.B. Every sentence of a paragraph in your written work that does not 
contain a citation will be assumed to be your own writing, thoughts or 
ideas, so make sure it is!
The following sections contain information on academic integrity, 
avoiding plagiarism and using artificial intelligence. For more information 
on referencing and the three styles (Harvard, APA & IEEE) used at NCI, see 
page 23. 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
12
Academic Integrity and Avoiding Plagiarism 
It is important to understand why using good quality resources and 
referencing them is such a fundamental part of any academic undertaking. 
Using academic resources ensures your work is built on solid evidence. 
Referencing then allows you to present this evidence and support your 
writing, which demonstrates to your reader that your research and writing 
is well informed by appropriate sources. Most importantly, referencing 
also allows you to credit other authors for the use of their words and 
ideas. Ultimately, by using good quality resources and referencing them 
accurately, you can uphold academic integrity in your work and avoid 
plagiarism. 
What is Academic Integrity?
Academic integrity is about using your own thoughts and words in your 
assignments and exams. It is important to be aware of the academic 
practices required at National College of Ireland and to not assume 
that what was accepted in your previous educational experience is also 
accepted at NCI. 
Academic writing is built on trust, and students are expected to be 
honest and responsible in the work they do. This includes crediting and 
referencing any sources that have been used in assignments and research 
as well as using authentic, reputable sources that can be accessed and 
verified by your lecturers. When information has been taken from another 
source, you are expected to give full credit for the use of another person’s 
thoughts and ideas. Intentional or unintentional use of another’s work, 
without proper acknowledgement, is plagiarism. 
See the Academic Integrity Guide and the Academic Integrity Starter 
Guide for further details. In addition, Epigeum, a self-directed learning 
programme on academic integrity, is available via Moodle or the Library 
website (A-Z Databases) - all first year Undergraduate and Postgraduate 
students are required to complete the programme.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
13
What is Plagiarism?
Plagiarism refers to taking another person’s words, ideas, data or images 
and using them as your own without giving credit to the original source 
of the information. Plagiarism can happen in many different ways, so it is 
important to be aware of how to avoid it.
Examples of Plagiarism
● Copying words or ideas from someone else without giving them 
credit
● Copying images, graphs or computer code (for code, check 
permitted use with your lecturers)
● Paraphrasing another’s work too closely, with only minor changes, 
but with the essential meaning, format and/or progression of ideas 
maintained
● Failing to put a quotation in quotation marks – this is considered 
plagiarism even if you reference the source because you have 
presented the work as a paraphrase (i.e. your own words)
● Relying on a specific idea or interpretation which is not your own, 
and which has not been properly referenced
● Compiling the work of others from multiple sources, and 
representing this as your own original work
● When two or more students work together on an assignment/
project that was meant to be completed by one person only (i.e. 
collusion)
● Preparing an original and correctly referenced assignment and 
submitting part or all of the same exact assignment twice for 
separate modules (i.e. self-plagiarism) 
● Using generative AI tools (ChatGPT, Copilot etc.) to generate 
content/text for your assignments without permission and 
presenting this as your own work
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
14
How Do I Avoid Plagiarism? 
● Don’t copy and paste any text into your assignment draft, as this 
will inevitably lead to you using wording that is too close to the 
original
● Use a variety of good quality sources, i.e. don’t rely on just one 
source for whole sections of your assignment
● Keep good quality and accurate notes - good referencing starts 
with well organised notetaking and record keeping
● Make sure that you paraphrase properly and reference correctly
● Don’t use generative AI tools to generate content/text for your 
assignments (see page 17 of this guide for how to use AI ethically)
How is Plagiarism Detected?
Lecturer knowledge
Plagiarism can be detected through your lecturer’s experience with how 
plagiarism commonly occurs and their familiarity with key readings and 
resources associated with the subject they are teaching.
● They will look for any discrepancies between your own writing 
style and the plagiarised content and be able to recognise when 
the writing standard and style is above and beyond the normal 
expectations of student work. 
● If your writing is more comprehensive and more polished than 
would be expected for your level of study (either for you or for 
the students in your class), this can raise suspicions about the 
originality of the content. 
● If specific word choices used in your writing are unusual or 
particularly sophisticated, this can also bring into question the 
integrity of your work. 
● If the resources you reference in your assignments cannot be 
accessed by your lecturer, this is also an area of concern
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
15
Turnitin
NCI uses similarity detection software called Turnitin to help academic 
members of staff to detect possible instances of plagiarism. When you 
submit an assignment on Moodle, Turnitin matches the text against its 
own database of electronic resources and the internet and produces a 
Similarity Report. This report highlights any matches and gives an overall 
percentage of similarity found in the submitted paper. This helps your 
lecturer to identify possible instances of plagiarism. 
However, having similarities in your assignment does not necessarily 
mean you have plagiarised. Turnitin does not consider whether you have 
quoted or referenced correctly, it only points out similarities of any kind - 
for example:
● Direct quotes that you have properly referenced may be 
highlighted - this is not considered plagiarism as you have clearly 
indicated the original source
● References in your Reference List will be highlighted at the end of 
your work - this would not be considered plagiarism either 
● Any use of a cover sheet for your submissions will also be included 
in a Turnitin similarity report – again, this does not indicate 
plagiarism.
Turnitin also has AI detection functionality, which can help your lecturer 
to identify possible AI generated text in your assignment.
See the online Turnitin Guide for more information.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
16
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Advancements in AI technology have brought many new challenges when 
it comes to evaluating information, avoiding plagiarism and upholding 
academic integrity. Generative AI chatbots (ChatGPT, Copilot, Gemini 
etc.) can be useful when used responsibly and ethically. However, they 
can also be used in ways that can violate academic integrity and impede 
your learning, so it is important to be clear on permitted use and be 
transparent when using AI tools.
National College of Ireland permits the ethical use of AI tools, and the 
college has developed a policy and guidance on how to use AI in an 
effective and transparent way to ensure academic integrity is upheld in 
your work. See the Use of AI in Teaching and Learning online guide for 
more information.
NCI students are required to have an understanding of what generative 
AI is and how it can be used ethically and appropriately in an academic 
context. To use generative AI (genAI) in a way that is beneficial to your 
learning, you will need to use it selectively and strategically. Generally, 
you will not be permitted to use AI generated text or content in your 
assignments at NCI, unless given explicit permission by your lecturer. 
You may be allowed to use AI tools to brainstorm, structure ideas etc., 
but you always need to check permitted use with your lecturer and be 
transparent about how you have used AI. If you have identified any 
sources or references through an AI tool, you must verify that they are 
credible sources by locating and accessing them online or through the 
library and reading and referencing them directly rather than as described 
by the AI tool.
It is crucial that you are open and transparent about your use of AI. 
If you are permitted to use AI to assist with an assignment, you will 
need to declare what tool you used and how you used it in the AI 
Acknowledgement Cover Sheet (available on Moodle and the library 
website). It is also important to keep a record of any AI use (including 
screenshots) so you can provide additional evidence of how you used AI if 
requested. 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
17
When it comes to ethically using AI at NCI, the key message is to seek 
permission and be transparent.
What is Generative AI?
Generative AI is a type of artificial intelligence capable of creating content 
such as text, images, music, video, or code in response to prompts 
written in natural language. These tools are able to generate such content 
because they are trained on vast datasets, typically Large Language 
Models, allowing them to produce outputs that resemble human 
communication. OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Microsoft’s Copilot are examples 
of commonly used generative AI tools.
AI and Academic Integrity
Academic integrity is a fundamental requirement at NCI. Students 
submitting work and assessments created by someone or something 
else, as if it was their own, is plagiarism and violates academic integrity 
- this includes AI-generated content. Generative AI is not an original or 
authoritative source of information; it simply reproduces information 
from unidentified sources. 
AI tools must not be used unethically to pass off AI-generated text as 
your own work. Any work submitted by you to NCI must represent a 
genuine demonstration of your own writing, skills and knowledge. Using 
a generative AI tool to create or re-write or paraphrase your assignment 
and then submitting that content as your own, is cheating. Outsourcing 
your academic work to AI in this way breaches NCI’s Academic Integrity 
Policy. 
Risks and Disadvantages of Using AI
As attractive as using AI may seem, there are risks associated with using 
AI output for your academic work and ways of using it that are not 
appropriate or acceptable in NCI. It is crucial to be aware of the limitations 
and risks associated with using AI in an academic setting. Remember, AI 
tools are not databases of knowledge. They ‘predict’ combinations of 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
18
plausible words; therefore, they should never be used exclusively instead 
of recommended readings from your lecturer and library resources.
It is also important to be aware that AI tools are prone to ‘hallucination’, 
i.e. sometimes they generate misleading, incorrect or completely 
fabricated information such as false references that don’t exist. They 
also have the potential to undermine your learning by offering shortcuts 
and diminishing critical engagement and evaluation. Any information or 
source generated by an AI tool must not be taken at face value and must 
be verified by seeking out reputable sources to see if it is correct and 
authentic. It is your responsibility to check the accuracy of any AI output.
See below for additional risks associated with using AI output for your 
academic work:
● AI output can be inaccurate, unreliable or false
● AI doesn’t “think” - it is not capable of critically evaluating 
information
● AI tools provide you with information based on your prompt rather 
than the true source material 
● AI output can be biased and often dated 
● AI often only works with content available on the surface web and 
not content that is behind paywalls (this includes access to eBooks, 
journal collections and other specialist databases like the kind of 
content that NCI Library provides access to and your lecturers will 
be looking for you to use)
● By relying on AI to do your research or writing for you, you miss 
out on vital learning opportunities – paraphrasing, summarising 
and making your own notes are part of the learning process
The more reliant you are on AI tools, the harder it will be for you to 
research and write future assignments independently, as you will not have 
developed the skills and knowledge you are expected to have gained from 
previous work. It is important to remember that research and writing are 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
19
skills that need to be learned and practised and are fundamental aspects 
of any academic undertaking.
How Can I Use AI Ethically?
Before using any AI tool, it is important to understand the limitations of 
the technology and be able to critically evaluate any output in terms of 
accuracy and relevance. If you are using an AI tool to find information, 
it is important that you search for and access any resource that it 
recommends, in order to read the information yourself to form your own 
conclusions and verify that it is a legitimate source. 
Synthesising information from a range of sources through the act of 
writing is how you develop critical thinking skills. This is the purpose of 
researching and writing academic assignments, and what your lecturer is 
marking you on. Any use of AI should only supplement this process, not 
replace it. It is important that you document any AI use as you will need to 
declare it in the AI Acknowledgement Cover Sheet.
Suggested ways to use AI ethically:
● To explore a new topic 
● To generate keywords/search strategies
● To brainstorm or create a mind map
● To structure your ideas
● To get an alternative insight into a topic
● To develop new questions
● To engage in a ‘dialogue’ on a topic by using it as an information 
gathering tool before then consulting reputable and recommended 
sources directly and reading them yourself
Remember, AI tools can be useful if used ethically, but they should not be 
used to do your work for you or used as a replacement for engaging with 
the content your lecturer has posted on Moodle.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
20
Research Assistants
AI powered research assistants (Scite, Consensus, Elicit, SciSpace etc.) 
are commonly used to search for and discover related research and to 
summarise or analyse research. These can be useful for gaining an initial 
idea of important research in a particular field or for those undertaking a 
large amount of research. However, like any tool, they should not be used 
as a replacement for your own critical evaluation and analysis.
Using Grammar/Spelling Correction Tools
Many students use tools for grammar/spelling correction or even 
translation. However, because some tools (e.g. Grammarly) use AI to 
generate or rephrase text, it is important that you don’t use these tools 
to produce substantial amounts of AI-generated text in your assignments. 
Grammar checking tools with an AI element should be used sparingly and 
transparently, as they can violate academic integrity policy (unless you are 
given permission to use them) and also impede the development of your 
academic writing skills.
If you do use a grammar correction tool with AI functionality, like 
Grammarly, you should declare it in the AI Acknowledgement Cover Sheet. 
This makes it clear to your lecturer how and why you have used that 
particular tool. You should always discuss with your lecturer regarding 
acceptable usage of grammar/spelling correction tools, and they will be 
able to advise further. 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
21
Consequences of Plagiarism and Unethical Use of AI in 
Your Work
Plagiarism constitutes serious academic misconduct, and the penalties are 
severe if a student is found to have deliberately plagiarised the work of 
another, including copying the work of other students. As a student, it is 
your responsibility to avoid plagiarism.
In addition, the use of AI must align with NCI’s Academic Integrity 
Statement and Academic Integrity Policy. The unauthorised or improper 
use of AI will be seen as academic misconduct. If your work is thought to 
contain content that you did not create (write) yourself, it can lead to an 
investigation and serious consequences. Where NCI cannot stand over a 
piece of work created by a student due to inappropriate or unauthorised 
AI use, this work will not be accepted and may lead to disciplinary action.
As stated previously, lecturers in NCI use Turnitin (see page 16) to help 
them detect possible instances of plagiarism and inappropriate use of AI. 
If a lecturer has serious concerns about plagiarism or unethical use of AI, 
they will notify you and then seek a second opinion. If their concerns are 
found to be justified, the consequences can range from the following:
1. Your assignment grade being capped
2. Loss of marks in part or whole
3. Submitting a new piece of work
4. Suspension
5. Expulsion
For more information, see NCI’s Academic Integrity Policy.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
22
The Basics of Referencing
What is Referencing?
One of the distinguishing features of academic writing is that it is 
informed by what is already known, what work has been done before, 
and/or what ideas and methods have already been developed. Thus, in 
academic books and articles, writers frequently make reference to other 
studies and to the work of other authors. At NCI, you are required to do 
the same in your assignments and research by referring to information 
written or created by others. An essential aspect of academic writing is 
providing references to demonstrate to your lecturers that you have built 
your understanding on credible sources of information.
Information can come from many different sources (textbooks, academic 
journals, conference papers, websites etc.), however, it is important that 
you use good quality academic sources as much as possible. You will be 
expected to use a variety of sources and reference them throughout your 
assignments in order to support your work and give credit to the original 
creators of the information.
Referencing (or citing) means acknowledging the sources that you used 
to inform and support your writing in your assignments. Referencing is a 
required feature of academic writing and a skill you will need to learn.
When you use information that someone else has written or produced, 
you need to give them credit and ensure that the person reading your 
assignment can easily locate the source where you found the information. 
In order to do this consistently and accurately, we use referencing styles. 
A referencing style is a set of rules to help you format the references 
in your assignment, both within the text of your assignment and in a 
reference list at the end.
Three referencing styles are used at NCI: Harvard, APA and IEEE. Which 
referencing style you should use depends on what course or subject 
you are studying. Harvard is required by most courses; Psychology and 
Education and Learning and Teaching students use APA; and Computing 
students use either IEEE or Harvard depending on the module. 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
23
It is important to check with your lecturer to ensure you are using the 
correct referencing style.
Why Should I Reference?
One of the most important things you have to do in your assignments and 
research is show your lecturers where your information comes from, so 
that they can see you are well informed. You do this by making sure you 
use and reference evidence to back up the claims you make. Referencing 
is a requirement in all assignments and research conducted in NCI where 
information has been taken from other sources - here are the main 
reasons why you should reference:
● To enable your reader to locate and access the sources you have 
used and confirm/contest the information for themselves
● To strengthen your arguments, support your own ideas and give 
them credibility
● To demonstrate that you have read and used relevant and good 
quality sources for your research
● To acknowledge and credit the original source of the information, 
thereby avoiding plagiarism
By properly referencing your written work, you are rightfully giving credit 
to the words and ideas of others that you have used; you are also clearly 
demonstrating the level of your own reading and research. By following a 
specific referencing style, those who read and grade your work can easily 
identify and locate the sources you have used. Also, correctly referencing 
in your written work will improve your grades and help you to avoid 
plagiarism.
When Should I Reference?
You should reference whenever you reword (paraphrase/summarise) or 
directly quote a source of information in your writing.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
24
Where Do I Reference?
References need to be included in two different places in your 
assignments:
● In the text of your assignment at the exact point where you use or 
refer to information from another source. This is called an in-text 
citation – here you only provide the briefest details of the source 
(author and year – Harvard/APA; number – IEEE).
● In the reference list at the end of your assignment – here you 
provide the full details of the source you cited in the main text of 
your assignment including author, year and title plus other details 
depending on the source type.
What Referencing Style Should I Use? 
A referencing style is a set of rules to help you format the references in 
your assignment, both within the text and in a reference list at the end.
This guide includes the 3 main referencing styles which are currently used 
in NCI. These styles are:
● Harvard – used in all courses in the School of Business plus some 
modules in the School of Computing. See page 29.
● APA - used by students studying Psychology, Education and 
Learning and Teaching. See page 58.
● IEEE – used in the School of Computing as well as the Harvard 
style. See page 83.
Always clarify with your lecturer which referencing style is required.
Disclaimer: Whilst every possible effort has been made to accurately and 
consistently reflect the APA, Harvard and IEEE styles in the examples 
provided in this guide, small errors may occur. This guide is regularly 
revised and any errors which are identified will be rectified in future 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
25
editions. Please note, there are also variations within these styles 
regarding certain details – should your reference vary slightly from 
an example contained within this guide, it is important that you are 
consistent with the variation when presenting and formatting your 
references, as long as it does not follow a contrary style to the one you 
should be using.
Formulating References
References can be typed out manually, however, there are a variety of 
reference generators and managers available that you can use to keep 
track of the sources you use and formulate references. It is important that 
you understand what the referencing style you are required to use should 
look like and what details are required so that you can enter the right 
information into a reference manager and correct any mistakes.
N.B. No reference manager or generator is 100% accurate, so you will 
need to double check any references generated for accuracy using the 
examples in this guide and manually edit references where necessary.
Reference Managers
Mendeley 
Mendeley is a free reference manager available to download or use online. 
Mendeley can be used to import and organise online resources and also to 
create citations and references. The plugin for Microsoft Word (Mendeley 
Cite) can be used to automatically generate references in Harvard, APA or 
IEEE style.
For more information, please see the Library’s dedicated Mendeley Guide
or go to the Mendeley website: https://www.mendeley.com/
Zotero
Zotero is a free and open-source reference manager that can be used to 
import and organise your research and create citations and references 
similar to Mendeley. ZoteroBib (https://zbib.org/) can also be used to 
quickly generate references or a reference list in Harvard, APA or IEEE 
style.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
26
For more information, please see the online Referencing and Avoiding 
Plagiarism Guide or the Zotero website: https://www.zotero.org/
Other Referencing Tools
Microsoft Word 
Microsoft Word has a built-in referencing function which is useful for 
creating both citations and reference lists. However, Microsoft Word 
has a limited amount of citation styles to choose from, and bibliographic 
information on each source must be added manually.
N.B. Recent versions of Word only include APA 6th edition so you may 
need to edit references manually to reflect the 7th edition.
For more information on how to create citations and references in 
Microsoft Word, see the online Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism 
Guide.
LaTeX and BibTeX
LaTeX is a document preparation system used to format a document’s 
structure, style and citations by using a mark-up language and plain 
text. LaTeX is particularly useful when creating complex documents 
which include mathematical equations or symbols. BibTeX is a reference 
management file format and programme and is used alongside LaTeX to 
create and prepare citations throughout a LaTeX document. 
For more information on how to use LaTeX and BibTeX, see the online 
Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide or go to the LaTeX website: 
https://www.latex-project.org/
Overleaf is a commonly used online LaTeX editor which requires no 
download or installation, see their website for more information: https://
www.overleaf.com/
Websites
In addition to the referencing tools listed previously, there are also a 
variety of websites (MyBib, CiteThisForMe etc.) that can be used to create 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
27
references. These websites can be used to generate references for a 
variety of sources (eBooks, journal articles, websites etc.) in a variety of 
styles (Harvard, APA and IEEE are all commonly available). 
Referencing websites are useful if you are looking for a fast and easy way 
to create references for an assignment. Most are free to use to generate 
single references, but they may require you to pay to save your reference 
list for later use. However, they are useful if you simply need to generate 
references in the required referencing style and then add them into your 
reference list at the end of your assignment.
As noted previously, it is always a good idea to check the references 
these websites create against the examples in this guide to ensure they 
accurately reflect the sources you have read and contain the required 
components based on the source type.
Generative AI tools (ChatGPT, Copilot etc.)
Generative AI tools are commonly used to formulate references in various 
styles; however, they are not always accurate. It is important to be aware 
of the requirements of the referencing style you are required to use, in 
order to correct and manually edit any references formulated by an AI 
tool. 
When using any AI tool to formulate references, make sure to adjust 
your prompt or instruct the tool to follow the formatting instructions for 
Harvard, APA or IEEE contained in this guide. This is particularly important 
for Harvard style, as several versions of the style exist, so it is important to 
follow NCI Harvard as outlined in this guide to ensure the references are 
accurately formatted.
Use of AI tools to formulate references would also need to be declared in 
the AI Acknowledgement Cover Sheet.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
28
Harvard Style
The Harvard referencing style is one of the main styles used in National 
College of Ireland. It is also known as the ‘author date’ system. Several 
versions of the style exist, so it is important to follow NCI Harvard as 
outlined in this guide to ensure your references are accurate, particularly if 
using a reference manager or generator.
Harvard style is a two-part system, so you need to include references in 
two different places in your work - in the text and at the end in a list of 
references.
Only the author surname(s) and publication year are included within 
the text and then the full bibliographic details are provided in the list of 
references at the end, which is titled References.
Getting Started
Referencing In Text
Readers experience your writing one line at a time. When they see 
information that isn’t common knowledge, they begin to wonder where 
that information came from. Don’t make them wait until the end of the 
paragraph - that’s too late. A reference needs to be made at the exact 
point in your writing where you use information from another source. 
This consists of a short, basic reference (Author, Year) inserted every time 
you use or refer to someone else’s work in-text. When you do this, you 
establish clear boundaries between your own thoughts and the work of 
others.
Parenthetical vs. narrative citations
In Harvard style, there are two different ways to use in-text citations, 
parenthetical and narrative:
● In parenthetical citations, both the author’s name and the 
publication date are placed in brackets (parentheses). A 
parenthetical citation is generally placed at the end of the 
sentence.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
29
● In narrative citations, the author’s name is used as part of the 
sentence structure and only the publication year is placed in 
brackets directly after where the author’s name is used.
When to use et al.
“Et al.” is short for “and others” in Latin. In Harvard style, if a source has 
three or more authors, you can use et al. (in italics) after the first author’s 
surname in text, see example below:
N.B. “Et al.” is only used in-text to save space, include all author names in 
the corresponding reference list entry.
Using direct quotations
Quotations taken directly from an original source must be enclosed in 
double quotation marks and the exact wording, spelling and syntax of 
the original text must be used. A citation must also be added after the 
quotation including the page number(s) where the quotation was taken 
from (if available). 
Example 
parenthetical 
citation
Example
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
30
Consideration of how the business can consistently 
meet the needs of customers is the basis of quality 
management (Cole and Kelly, 2020).
Example 
narrative 
citation
Taylor (2019) suggests that using more positive and 
inclusive language is key in managing diversity. 
Robbins et al. (2017) note that working for a 
charismatic leader may motivate employees to work 
harder.
Example “Projects and project management take place in an 
environment that is broader than that of the project 
itself” (Project Management Institute, 2013, p. 19).
N.B. The use of direct quotations should be kept to a minimum in your 
work and are best used only when exact wording is important, for 
example, when providing a precise definition. It is better to put information 
into your own words as much as possible by paraphrasing, in which case 
you do not need to include page number(s) in your in-text citation.
The Reference List 
When using the Harvard referencing style, a reference also needs to be 
included in a list of references at the end of your work. A reference list 
provides comprehensive details of all the sources cited in the text of your 
written work. If a reader wants to know the full details of or access a 
source you have used, they can check your reference list. 
As Harvard is a two-part referencing system, it is important that in-text 
citations and reference list entries correspond - every source cited in the 
text of your work must have a corresponding entry in the reference list. It 
is also important to ensure that every source included in the reference list 
is directly cited in the text - do not include a reference for a source that 
you have not cited in text.
The reference list should be in alphabetical order by the primary author’s 
surname or family name; this makes it easier for your reader to locate a 
source cited in the text of your assignment. Do not number or bullet point
the reference list in Harvard style.
What is a reference made of?
A reference generally consists of the name(s) of the author(s), the year 
and title of the source plus other components depending on the source 
type.
Remember, the components you need to include and the way a reference 
is formatted depends on the type of resource. For example, a book is 
referenced differently from a journal article, therefore, it is important that 
you follow the correct example on the following pages depending on the 
type of source you need to reference.
See page 55 for an example Harvard style reference list.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
31
Harvard - Core Sources
This section provides guidance and examples on how to reference the 
most common information sources such as books, journal articles and 
webpages in Harvard style. There are different levels of quality when it 
comes to information sources, so it is important to be selective with the 
ones you use. Try to reference a variety of sources and utilise academic 
resources (books/eBooks/journal articles) recommended by your lecturer 
or from the library as much as possible.
Books
Follow this format to reference a print or hardcopy book. The place of 
publication and the name of the publisher is included in a book reference.
Components of a Book Reference
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
32
Format Examples
Book - One author
Taylor, S. (2019) Resourcing and talent management. 7th edn. London: 
Kogan Page.
Book - Two authors
Cole, G. A. and Kelly, P. (2020) Management: Theory and practice. 9th edn. 
Andover: Cengage.
Book - Three authors
Robbins, S. P., Judge, T. A. and Campbell, T. T. (2017) Organizational 
behaviour. 2nd edn. London: Pearson.
Book - Corporate author
Project Management Institute (2017) A guide to the project management 
body of knowledge: PMBOK® guide. 6th edn. Newton Square, PA: Project 
Management Institute.
N.B. Corporate authors can be the names of companies, organisations, 
professional bodies, government departments etc.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
33
Edited Books
An edited book is a collection of different chapters, each written by a 
different author, so the authors of the specific chapter you used are 
included in the reference as well as the overall editor(s) of the book.
Components of a Chapter of an Edited Book Reference
Format Examples
Chapter of an edited book – One author
Trevor-Roberts, E. (2020) ‘Navigating the future of work to build 
meaningful careers’, in Wilkinson, A. and Barry, M. (eds.) The future of 
work and employment. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 204-
222.
Chapter of an edited book – Two authors
MacMahon, J. and O’Brien, M. (2019) ‘Diversity and equality in 
the workplace’, in Carbery, R. and Cross, C. (eds.) Human resource 
management. 2nd edn. London: Red Globe Press, pp. 99-119.
N.B. It is best practice to reference a specific chapter of an edited book 
rather than the whole edited book.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
34
eBooks
An eBook is any book that you have accessed online, either through the 
library’s eBook collections or elsewhere. A URL is included in the reference 
instead of publication details so the eBook can be easily accessed by your 
reader.
Components of an eBook Reference
Format Examples
eBook - One author
Kuratko, D. F. (2017) Entrepreneurship: Theory, process, practice. 
10th edn. Available at: https://www.vlebooks.com/vleweb/product/
openreader?id=NATCOLIRE&accId=9128356&isbn=9781473745551 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
eBook – Two authors
Armstrong, M. and Taylor, S. (2020) Armstrong’s handbook of 
human resource management practice. 15th edn. Available at: https://
ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/detail.action?docID=5995878 
[Accessed 10 April 2025]. 
eBook – Three or more authors
Saunders, M. N. K., Thornhill, A. and Lewis, P. (2023) Research methods 
for business students. 9th edn. Available at: https://www.vlebooks.com/
product/openreader?id=NATCOLIRE&accId=9128356&isbn=9781292402734 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
35
eBook – Corporate author
Arthur Cox Employment Law Group (2022) Arthur Cox employment law 
yearbook 2021. Available at: https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/
detail.action?docID=6984466 [Accessed 10 April 2025].
N.B. Corporate authors can be the names of companies, organisations, 
professional bodies, government departments etc.
Edited eBooks
A chapter of an edited eBook is referenced similarly to a chapter from 
a print edited book, except a URL is included instead of the publication 
details.
Components of a Chapter of an Edited eBook Reference
Format Examples
Chapter of an edited eBook – One author
De Vauplane, H. (2021) ‘Cryptocurrencies and central banks’, in Madir, J. 
(ed.) Fintech: Law and regulation. 2nd edn. pp. 121-146. Available at: https://
ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/detail.action?docID=6827820 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
Chapter of an edited eBook – Two authors
Flynn, G. and Werhane, P. H. (2022) ‘A framework for leadership and ethics 
in business and society’, in Flynn, G (ed.) Leadership and business ethics.
2nd edn. pp. 1-9. Available at: https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/
ncirlie/detail.action?docID=6875009 [Accessed 10 April 2025].
N.B. It is best practice to reference a specific chapter of an edited eBook 
rather than the whole edited eBook.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
36
Journal Articles
A journal article is a report of academic research published in a journal – 
think of a journal as an academic magazine that contains various articles 
by different authors. Both the title of the article and the name of the 
journal are included in the reference as well as volume, issue and page 
numbers or article number (if available). A DOI or URL is also included so 
the article can be easily located and accessed online.
Components of a Journal Article Reference
Format Examples
Journal article – One author
Carrera, L. (2022) ‘Corporate social responsibility: A strategy for social 
and territorial sustainability’, International Journal of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, 7(1), pp. 1-11. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40991-022-00074-0
Journal article – Two authors
Lou, C. and Yuan, S. (2019) ‘Influencer marketing: How message value 
and credibility affect consumer trust of branded content on social media’, 
Journal of Interactive Advertising, 19(1), pp. 58–73. https://doi.org/10.1080/1
5252019.2018.1533501
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
0237
Journal article – Three or more authors
Sheerin, C., Hughes, C. and Garavan, T. (2020) ‘Gendered practices and 
tacit knowledge sharing in organizations: A structuration perspective’, 
Human Resource Development International, 23(5), pp. 542-568. https://doi.
org/10.1080/13678868.2020.1769402
N.B. Sometimes a journal article will list an article number instead of page 
numbers – in these cases, include the article number after the volume/
issue number without pp. 
N.B. If a DOI URL is not available as shown in the above examples, insert a 
URL (Permalink) and access date instead (see eBook or webpage formats 
for inserting URLs in references. See page 50 of this guide for more 
information on DOIs and Permalinks).
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
38
Conference Papers
Conference papers are a written record of research that was presented 
at a conference. Both the name of the conference paper and the name, 
location and date of the conference are included in the reference. 
Conference papers are commonly published in a collection of proceedings, 
so the page numbers that the specific paper appears on in the 
proceedings are also included in the reference, as well as a DOI or URL.
Components of a Conference Paper Reference
Format Example
Conference paper – Three or more authors
Estherita, S. A., Vasantha, S. and Sungeetha, D. (2023) ‘Artificial 
intelligence and HR digitalization facilitated by transformational 
leadership’, in 2023 Intelligent Computing and Control for Engineering and 
Business Systems (ICCEBS). Chennai, India, 14-15 December 2023, pp. 1–6. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCEBS58601.2023.10448700
N.B. If the location/date of a conference paper is not listed it can be 
omitted from the reference. Sometimes conference papers are published 
in a journal or an edited book/eBook, in this case use the journal article or 
edited book/eBook reference formats instead.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
39
Webpages
A webpage is a single page of information or content that is part of 
a larger collection of pages on a website. You should reference the 
exact webpage used rather than the homepage of the website; if you 
use information taken from different webpages on the same website, 
reference each webpage individually. A document from a webpage is 
a PDF document that can be accessed or downloaded via a link on a 
webpage, you should include a URL for the specific document, if possible, 
rather than the webpage it was accessed from.
Components of a Webpage Reference
Format Examples
Webpage – One author
Ali, L. (2022) Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in the workplace.
Available at: https://www.cipd.org/ie/knowledge/factsheets/diversityfactsheet/ [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Document from a webpage – (PDF etc.)
Honohan, P. (2021) Is Ireland really the most prosperous country in Europe?
Available at: https://www.centralbank.ie/docs/default-source/publications/
economic-letters/vol-2021-no-1-is-ireland-really-the-most-prosperouscountry-in-europe.pdf [Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
40
N.B. Webpages and documents from a webpage (reports etc.) follow 
the same formatting rules for referencing, the URL of the source is not 
a sufficient reference by itself. Full reference details are required in the 
reference list. If you have used more than one page from a website, you 
will need a separate reference for each page used.
However, it can be more difficult to identify the author and publication 
date of websites or webpages. Where no author is clearly identified, you 
can use the name of the website but be sure that there is no individual 
author credited either at the beginning or the end of the webpage/
document before making that decision.
If no obvious date for the webpage is evident, scroll to the bottom of the 
page and use the copyright year listed there; if there is no year specifically 
mentioned at all, then use the current year at the time of writing.
A note on using webpages: It’s important to be selective in the webpages 
you choose to support your writing as more randomly chosen websites 
may not be considered valid academic sources. For this source type, try 
and prioritise websites that your lecturers have indicated are reputable 
sources in their recommended readings and online Moodle content
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
41
Online News Articles/Blogs
An online news article is any article from the online version of a 
newspaper (e.g. The Irish Times, The Guardian, The Financial Times etc.). 
A blog is a regularly updated website that publishes informal diary-like 
articles typically authored by one person. Both sources are referenced 
similarly to webpages, however, the name of the newspaper/blog is 
included and the day/month of publication.
Components of an Online News Article/Blog Reference
Format Examples
Online news article
Corrigan, E. (2022) ‘How ethical is it to use AI in insurance?’, The 
Irish Times, 4 May. Available at: https://www.irishtimes.com/specialreports/2023/05/04/how-ethical-is-it-to-use-ai-in-insurance/ [Accessed 10 
April 2025].
Blog
Whelan, K. (2021) ‘Are central banks storing up a future fiscal problem?’, 
Karl Whelan, 16 July. Available at: https://karlwhelan.com/blog/?p=2087 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
42
Case Studies
A case study is a detailed description of a real-life situation, organisation 
or event over a period of time. They are often used as part of a case study 
based assignment which requires you to analyse problems and identify 
solutions or alternative approaches and discuss the relationship between 
theory and practice. Case studies are mostly available online and so are 
referenced similarly to webpages, however, the label [Case Study] is 
included after the title.
Components of a Case Study Reference
Format Example
Case study
Zum Hebel, M., Gladstone, M. and Lauth, L. (2023) Coca-Cola: Rewriting 
the book on Christmas [Case Study]. Available at: https://www.warc.com/
content/article/warc-awards-effectiveness/coca-cola-rewriting-the-bookon-christmas/150655#about-the-author [Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
43
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
44
Format 
Example
The Wall Street Journal (2024) From Wall Street 
Journal Opinion: Will AI become humanlike? Conscious? 
Not so fast. Large language models are impressive, 
but they are still statistical models mimicking human 
thinking, writes Andy Kessler [Facebook], 22 October. 
Available at: https://www.facebook.com/WSJ/posts/
from-wall-street-journal-opinion-will-ai-becomehumanlike-conscious-not-so-fast-/929918052328126/ 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
Components Author Name (as it appears in post) (Year of post) 
Title of post (in italics) [Social Media Platform], Date 
and Month of post. Available at: URL [Accessed Day 
Month Year].
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication) Title 
of video (in italics). Available at: URL [Accessed Day 
Month Year].
Format 
Example
Sinek, S. (2023) Rethinking employee empowerment 
and loyalty. Available at: https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=dYPTWWcPva4 [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Harvard – Additional Sources
This section provides guidance and examples on how to reference 
additional information sources that you might encounter such as social 
media, online videos, podcasts and legislation in Harvard style. Some 
of these sources (social media, online videos and podcasts) are not 
considered to be equivalent to high quality academic texts so you should 
always check with your lecturer before using in your assignments.
Social Media - Facebook/Instagram/X/LinkedIn
Online Videos - YouTube etc.
Podcasts
Encyclopedias/Dictionaries
Print
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
45
Format 
Example
Components Author/Presenter Surname, Initial(s). (Year of 
publication) ‘Title of episode’ (in single quotation 
marks), Title of Podcast (in italics) [Podcast], Day 
Month of post. Available at: URL [Accessed Day 
Month Year].
Hancock, C. (2023) ‘Accountability for bankers and 
how it will work’, Inside Business with Ciaran Hancock [Podcast], 7 June. Available at: https://open.
spotify.com/episode/4JKKetokSXnlmFiqGQLxGS?si-
=e47817e7284c48cd [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication) ‘Title 
of encyclopedia/dictionary entry’ (in single quotation 
marks), Title of Encyclopedia/Dictionary (in italics). 
Place of Publication: Publisher.
Format 
Example
Channon, D. F. (1997) ‘Globalization’, The Blackwell 
encyclopedia of management volume II: Strategic 
management. Oxford: Blackwell Business.
Online
Legislation
Act
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication) ‘Title 
of encyclopedia/dictionary entry’ (in single quotation 
marks), Title of Encyclopedia/Dictionary (in italics). 
Available at: URL [Accessed Day Month Year].
Format 
Example
Prabhakar, R. (2023) ‘Corporate governance’, 
Encyclopaedia Britannica. Available at https://
www.britannica.com/topic/corporate-governance 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
Components Country of Act. Title of the Act (in italics and including 
the year). No. (if any), (section of legislation if 
specified in-text). Place of Publication: Publisher or 
Available at: URL [Accessed Day Month Year].
Format 
Example
Ireland. Organisation of Working Time Act, 1997. No. 
20. Available at: https://www.irishstatutebook.ie/
eli/1997/act/20/enacted/en/html [Accessed 10 April 
2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
46
Legal Cases/Law Reports
EU Directive
Components Title of Directive (all words in italics – should include 
institutional origin, year, legislation number, the date it 
was passed and the title). Available at: URL [Accessed 
Day Month Year].
Format 
Example
Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and 
of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 
2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial and 
diversity information by certain large undertakings and 
groups. Available at: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legalcontent/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32014L0095 [Accessed 
10 April 2025].
Components ‘Name of party v. Name of party’ (Year) Name 
of Court, case no. Database or website (in italics).
Available at: URL [Accessed Day Month Year].
Format 
Example
‘Smith v. The Health Service Executive’ (2013) 
Irish High Court, case 360. Courts Service of 
Ireland. Available at: https://www.courts.ie/acc/
alfresco/10111491-b200-4d11-b9d5-0e2f81957bb6/2013_
IEHC_360_1.pdf [Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
47
Theses/Dissertations
N.B. It is generally not recommended to reference theses/dissertations 
unless commenting on their own research – it is much better practice 
to find the sources they have used and reference those sources directly, 
particularly if you are consulting a recent thesis/dissertation.
Lecture Notes/Slides
It is not recommended to directly reference lecture notes or slides; ideally, 
you should be using these as a starting point to explore the books and 
resources discussed and highlighted in class and provide evidence to your 
lecturer of wider reading and research.
Diagrams/Charts/Images/Tables
Follow the format for the type of source from which the diagram/chart/
image/table is taken, i.e. a book/eBook, journal article, webpage etc.
N.B. If you use the exact same diagram/chart/image/table as featured 
within the source, make sure to give the exact caption title and put the 
in-text citation just beneath the diagram/chart/image/table with a page 
number (if applicable).
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication) Title 
of thesis/dissertation (in italics). BA/BSc/MA/MSc/Ph.D. 
thesis/dissertation. Place of Publication: Institution 
where submitted. Available at: URL [Accessed Day 
Month Year].
Format 
Example
Wall, L. (2022) The relationship between social media 
advertising factors and purchase intentions amongst 
millennials in Ireland: a quantitative study. MSc thesis. 
Dublin, National College of Ireland. Available at: 
https://norma.ncirl.ie/6433/1/lukewall.pdf [Accessed 10 
April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
48
Harvard – Additional Notes
Formulating References
References can always be typed manually, following the examples 
contained within this guide. However, there is also reference 
management software such as Mendeley or Zotero and numerous 
websites that can assist you in formulating references for most of the core 
sources in Harvard style. Microsoft Word also has a built-in referencing 
tool.
See page 26-28 of this guide and the online Referencing and Avoiding 
Plagiarism guide for further information.
N.B. Referencing tools are not always accurate so always double check 
your references are correct according to NCI Harvard style requirements 
as outlined in this guide.
Block Quotations
While the use of direct quotations should be kept to a minimum in your 
work, sometimes it may be necessary to provide a longer quotation 
(longer than approximately 30-40 words) particularly when recording 
excerpts of interviews in thesis work. In these cases, quotation marks 
are not used; instead, the entire quotation is indented and single spaced 
with a blank line above and below. If you choose to omit some part of a 
quotation, then indicate this by inserting three spaced dots (. . .) in place 
of the removed text.
No Known Author
Sometimes there is no formal information about the author. This may 
occur because the author is not known, or the publisher/organisation 
is considered the author. In this case, the name of the publisher/
organisation should be used as the author both in-text and in the 
reference list.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
49
If there is no known author (person, publisher or organisation) to credit, 
then it is not advisable to use the source as it may not be the best quality.
DOIs/Permalinks
When referencing online resources such as eBooks, journal articles or 
webpages, you are required to include a URL (or link) in the reference, this 
is important for two main reasons:
● To make it easier for your reader to access the sources you used 
and verify the information for themselves
● To demonstrate that you have used good quality, legitimate 
academic resources
There are two main types of URLs that are commonly included in 
references for online resources, DOIs and Permalinks.
What is a DOI?
A DOI, or Digital Object Identifier, is a series of numbers, letters and 
symbols used to permanently identify a digital resource. DOIs give a digital 
resource (journal article, conference paper, document or eBook) a unique, 
persistent identifier that does not change, allowing your reader to easily 
access the resource online.
Where to find a DOI
DOIs always start with 10 and can be found either on the record page 
(if searching on Discovery or in a database) or within the resource itself 
(often on the first page or in the header or footer of a journal article).
N.B. Not all articles or resources have a DOI.
How to include a DOI in a reference
You can include a DOI at the end of a reference to allow your reader to 
easily access the resource online. See below for an example of how to 
include a DOI in a Harvard style journal article reference:
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
50
In Harvard style, if an online resource has no DOI, you should include a 
permalink or persistent link in the reference instead. A permalink is a 
stable URL that will not change, break or expire. Many databases have an 
option for creating a permalink – see the online Referencing and Avoiding 
Plagiarism Guide for more information.
Authors Referring to Other Authors – Secondary Referencing
In academic sources, authors commonly refer to other authors. This can 
be difficult to navigate when referencing in your written work – see our 
advice below:
● If possible, try and locate the original author/source of the 
information referred to and then you can access and reference it 
directly
● Avoid referencing a source that you have not directly accessed and 
read yourself, i.e. you have only found it within another source – to 
do so, gives a false idea of the sources you have actually read and 
used for your assignment
● Try and use a passage of text that does not refer to other authors 
at all, this allows you to credit the main authors of the source you 
are reading directly and eliminates the need to credit other authors 
mentioned in the text
DOI format https://doi.org/10.1186/s40991-022-00074-0
Reference 
example
Carrera, L. (2022) ‘Corporate social responsibility: 
A strategy for social and territorial sustainability’, 
International Journal of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, 7(1), pp. 1-11. https://doi.org/10.1186/
s40991-022-00074-0
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
51
However, sometimes the above options may not be possible – in these 
cases, if you still need to use the information, you need to reference both 
the author(s) of the source you are reading and the author(s) referred to 
in text (secondary referencing)
In this example, only Farnham would be included in the reference list 
because you did not directly consult the Marchington et al. source. Also 
note, only the year of the source consulted is featured (i.e. Farnham), not 
the year of the source mentioned within the text.
Citing Multiple Sources In-Text – Chronological, Then 
Alphabetical Order
When providing multiple citations in text, list the citations chronologically 
(newest first) separated by a semi-colon; if you have two or more sources 
from the same year, list them alphabetically in the order they would 
appear in the reference list.
Acronyms or Abbreviations
An acronym or abbreviation can be used for a source to which you refer 
frequently. Give the name of the source in full on the first occasion it 
appears in the text and then use the abbreviation thereafter both in your 
text and as part of an in-text citation.
Example
Example (Chen et al., 2010; Dyson, 2010; Connolly, 2003).
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
52
Marchington et al. (cited in Farnham, 2015) have 
provided a fairly abrupt definition of HRM.
The full name and abbreviation should also feature in the full reference in 
the reference list.
Reference List Tips 
● All references should be listed alphabetically by the primary 
author’s surname or family name (regardless of the order you 
referred to them in your text); if the author is a company or 
organisation, this is also listed alphabetically with the other 
sources. There is no division of source types, all sources are 
listed together
● You should include all sources that you have cited in the text 
of your work, ensuring that the publication dates and spellings 
of author names are consistent both in the text and in the 
corresponding reference list entries
● Do not include any sources that have not been referred to intext
● Different works by the same author are arranged in date order 
(the earliest work is first)
Example “The National Economic and Social Forum (NESF) 
is a government-appointed social partnership body 
that provides advice on economic and social policies, 
especially those that seek to achieve greater equality and social inclusion in our society. It is the largest 
and most representative of the partnership bodies” 
(NESF, 2009).
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
53
● When you have multiple references with the same author 
and year, you can differentiate between them by inserting a 
letter next to the year both in-text and in the reference list, 
e.g. (CIPD, 2025a) and (CIPD, 2025b). In the reference list, 
list the references with the same author and the same year, 
alphabetically by title, apply the labels based on this order 
and then add the correct label to the corresponding in-text 
citation(s) so it is clear which of the sources you are referring to 
in text
● Do not number or bullet point the reference list in Harvard style
● Do not include a source in your reference list that you have not 
read yourself, i.e. it has only been referred to in another source 
you read
See the sample Harvard reference list on the following pages.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
54
Harvard – Sample Reference List
References
Ali, L. (2022) Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in the workplace.
Available at: https://www.cipd.org/ie/knowledge/factsheets/diversityfactsheet/ [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Armstrong, M. and Taylor, S. (2020) Armstrong’s handbook of 
human resource management practice. 15th edn. Available at: https://
ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/detail.action?docID=5995878 
[Accessed 10 April 2025]. 
Arthur Cox Employment Law Group (2022) Arthur Cox employment law 
yearbook 2021. Available at: https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/
detail.action?docID=6984466 [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Carrera, L. (2022) ‘Corporate social responsibility: A strategy for social 
and territorial sustainability’, International Journal of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, 7(1), pp. 1-11. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40991-022-00074-0
Cole, G. A. and Kelly, P. (2020) Management: Theory and practice. 9th edn. 
Andover: Cengage.
Corrigan, E. (2022) ‘How ethical is it to use AI in insurance?’, The 
Irish Times, 4 May. Available at: https://www.irishtimes.com/specialreports/2023/05/04/how-ethical-is-it-to-use-ai-in-insurance/ [Accessed 10 
April 2025].
De Vauplane, H. (2021) ‘Cryptocurrencies and central banks’, in Madir, J. 
(ed.) Fintech: Law and regulation. 2nd edn. pp. 121-146. Available at: https://
ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/detail.action?docID=6827820 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
Estherita, S. A., Vasantha, S. and Sungeetha, D. (2023) ‘Artificial 
intelligence and HR digitalization facilitated by transformational 
leadership’, in 2023 Intelligent Computing and Control for Engineering and 
Business Systems (ICCEBS). Chennai, India, 14-15 December 2023, pp. 1–6. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCEBS58601.2023.10448700
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
55
Flynn, G. and Werhane, P. H. (2022) ‘A framework for leadership and ethics 
in business and society’, in Flynn, G (ed.) Leadership and business ethics.
2nd edn. pp. 1-9. Available at: https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/
ncirlie/detail.action?docID=6875009 [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Honohan, P. (2021) Is Ireland really the most prosperous country in Europe?
Available at: https://www.centralbank.ie/docs/default-source/publications/
economic-letters/vol-2021-no-1-is-ireland-really-the-most-prosperouscountry-in-europe.pdf [Accessed 10 April 2025].
Kuratko, D. F. (2017) Entrepreneurship: Theory, process, practice. 
10th edn. Available at: https://www.vlebooks.com/vleweb/product/
openreader?id=NATCOLIRE&accId=9128356&isbn=9781473745551 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
Lou, C. and Yuan, S. (2019) ‘Influencer marketing: How message value 
and credibility affect consumer trust of branded content on social media’, 
Journal of Interactive Advertising, 19(1), pp. 58–73. https://doi.org/10.1080/1
5252019.2018.1533501
MacMahon, J. and O’Brien, M. (2019) ‘Diversity and equality in 
the workplace’, in Carbery, R. and Cross, C. (eds.) Human resource 
management. 2nd edn. London: Red Globe Press, pp. 99-119.
Project Management Institute (2017) A guide to the project management 
body of knowledge: PMBOK® guide. 6th edn. Newton Square, PA: Project 
Management Institute.
Robbins, S. P., Judge, T. A. and Campbell, T. T. (2017) Organizational 
behaviour. 2nd edn. London: Pearson.
Saunders, M. N. K., Thornhill, A. and Lewis, P. (2023) Research methods 
for business students. 9th edn. Available at: https://www.vlebooks.com/
product/openreader?id=NATCOLIRE&accId=9128356&isbn=9781292402734 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
56
Sheerin, C., Hughes, C. and Garavan, T. (2020) ‘Gendered practices and 
tacit knowledge sharing in organizations: A structuration perspective’, 
Human Resource Development International, 23(5), pp. 542-568. https://doi.
org/10.1080/13678868.2020.1769402
Taylor, S. (2019) Resourcing and talent management. 7th edn. London: 
Kogan Page.
Trevor-Roberts, E. (2020) ‘Navigating the future of work to build 
meaningful careers’, in Wilkinson, A. and Barry, M. (eds.) The future of 
work and employment. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 204-
222.
Whelan, K. (2021) ‘Are central banks storing up a future fiscal problem?’, 
Karl Whelan, 16 July. Available at: https://karlwhelan.com/blog/?p=2087 
[Accessed 10 April 2025].
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
57
APA Style
The American Psychological Association (APA) referencing style is most 
commonly used in the social sciences. It is currently used for courses such 
as Psychology, Education, and Learning and Teaching at National College 
of Ireland.
If you are required to use APA style referencing, please ensure you follow 
the 7th edition guidelines. For more information regarding the 7th edition, 
you can borrow a copy of the APA Publication Manual from the library or 
see the APA Style website.
The APA style is a two-part author-date system which includes in-text 
citations throughout the written work and then the full details of the 
sources cited in text are provided at the end of the work in a list titled 
Reference List.
Getting Started
Referencing In Text
Readers experience your writing one line at a time. When they see 
information that isn’t common knowledge, they begin to wonder where 
that information came from. Don’t make them wait until the end of the 
paragraph - that’s too late. A reference needs to be made at the exact 
point in your writing where you use information from another source. 
This consists of a short, basic reference (Author, Year) inserted every time 
you use or refer to someone else’s work in-text. When you do this, you 
establish clear boundaries between your own thoughts and the work of 
others.
Parenthetical vs. narrative citations
In APA style, there are two different ways to use in-text citations, 
parenthetical and narrative:
● In parenthetical citations, both the author’s name and the 
publication date are placed in brackets (parentheses). A 
parenthetical citation is generally placed at the end of the sentence
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
58
● In narrative citations, the author’s name is used as part of the 
sentence structure and only the publication year is placed in 
brackets directly after where the author’s name is used.
When to use et al.
In APA style, if a source has three or more authors, you can use et al. after 
the first author’s surname to save space in text, see example below:
N.B. All author names must be included in the corresponding reference list 
entry.
Using direct quotations
Quotations taken directly from an original source must be enclosed in 
double quotation marks and the exact wording, spelling and syntax of the 
original text must be used. When a direct quote is used, include the page 
number(s) the quote was taken from and add it to the in-text citation as 
shown in the example below. 
Example 
parenthetical 
citation
Young adults are likely to understand the need to be 
realistic and pragmatic (Santrock, 2019).
Example 
narrative 
citation
Boyd and Bee (2015) outline that human development is the study of a whole range of changes that 
occur as they get older.
Example According to Shaughnessy et al. (2015), all researchers and scientists have their part to play in maintaining the integrity of research.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
59
N.B. The use of direct quotations should be kept to a minimum in 
your work and are best used only when exact wording is important, 
for example, when providing a precise definition. It is better to put 
information into your own words as much as possible by paraphrasing, 
in which case you do not need to include page number(s) in your in-text 
citation. However, you can include them if it would help the reader to 
locate the quotation within a long or complex work (e.g. a book).
The Reference List
When using the APA referencing style, a corresponding reference for each 
source cited in text needs to be included in the reference list at the end of 
your work. A reference list provides comprehensive details of the sources 
used throughout your assignment or research. If a reader wants to know 
the full details of a source you have used, they can refer to your reference 
list.
The reference list should be in alphabetical order by the primary author’s 
surname or family name, this makes it easier for your reader to locate a 
source cited in the text of your assignment in your list of references. Do 
not number or bullet point the reference list in APA style.
Hanging indentation:
In your reference list, if a reference entry spans across more than one line, 
all of the lines after the first line of the entry should be indented one-half 
inch from the left margin. 
What is a reference made of?
A reference generally consists of the name(s) of the author(s), the year 
and title of the source plus other components depending on the source 
type.
Example “A critical part of the writing process is helping 
readers place your contribution in context by citing 
the researchers who influenced you” (American 
Psychological Association, 2010, p. 169).
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
60
Remember, the components you need to include and the way a reference 
is formatted depends on the type of resource. For example, a book is 
referenced differently from a journal article, therefore, it is important that 
you follow the correct example on the following pages depending on the 
type of source you need to reference.
See page 81 of this guide for an example APA style reference list.
Paper Format
According to APA 7th edition guidelines, a specific format should be used 
throughout your document. It is recommended that the format includes 
the following:
● 1 inch margins on all sides of the page (top, bottom, left, and right)
● A legible font. For example: 11-point Calibri, 11-point Arial, 12-point 
Times New Roman or 11-point Georgia
● Use double-spacing for the entire paper (including block 
quotations and the reference list). Do not add blank lines before or 
after headings. Do not add extra spacing between paragraphs
● Align paragraphs of text to the left margin. Indent the first line of 
every paragraph of text 0.5 in.
● Put a page number in the top right corner of every page, including 
the title page
See the APA Style website for additional guidance on paper format.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
61
APA - Core Sources
This section provides guidance and examples on how to reference the 
most common information sources such as books, journal articles and 
webpages in APA style. There are different levels of quality when it comes 
to information sources, so it is important to be selective with the ones you 
use. Try to reference a variety of sources and utilise academic resources 
(books/eBooks/journal articles) recommended by your lecturer or from 
the library as much as possible.
Books/eBooks
Use the same format for both hard copy books and eBooks. If an eBook 
is from an academic research database (APA PsycBooks, Proquest Ebook 
Central, EBSCOhost etc.) and has no DOI, end the book reference after the 
publisher’s name - the reference in this case is the same as a print book. 
Components of a Book/eBook Reference
Format Examples
Book/eBook - One author
Kalat, J. W. (2021). Introduction to psychology (12th ed.). Cengage.
Book/eBook - Two authors
Howitt, D., & Cramer, D. (2020). Research methods in psychology (6th ed.). 
Pearson.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
62
Book/eBook - Three or more authors
Aronson, E., Wilson, T. D., & Sommers, S. R. (2020). Social psychology (10th 
global ed.). Pearson.
Book/eBook - Corporate author
American Psychiatric Association. (2022). Diagnostic and statistical manual 
of mental disorders (5th ed., text rev.).
N.B. When the author and the publisher are the same (e.g. American 
Psychiatric Association), the name is listed as the author only to avoid 
repetition in the reference. 
Further guidance on referencing eBooks in APA style
If an eBook has a DOI, include the DOI in the reference after the 
publisher’s name as shown in the example below:
eBook - With DOI
Jackson, L. M. (2019). The psychology of prejudice: From attitudes to social 
action (2nd ed.). American Psychological Association. https://doi.
org/10.1037/0000168-000
When referencing an eBook that is not from an academic research 
database (e.g. Google Books, DOAB etc.), include a stable URL (Permalink) 
in the reference after the publisher’s name as shown in the example 
below:
eBook - With URL (Permalink)
Huron, D. (2024). The science of sadness. MIT Press. https://directory.
doabooks.org/handle/20.500.12854/146745
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
63
Edited Books/eBooks
An edited book is a collection of different chapters, each written by a 
different author, so the authors of the specific chapter you used are 
included in the reference as well as the overall editor(s) of the book.
Components of an Edited Book/eBook Reference
Format Examples
Chapter of an edited book/eBook - One author
Sturgis, P. (2020). Surveys and sampling. In G. M. Breakwell, D. B. Wright, 
& J. Barnett (Eds.), Research methods in psychology (5th ed., pp. 
373-393). Sage.
Chapter of an edited book/eBook - Two authors
Freeman, L., & Sullivan, C. (2019) Thematic analysis. In C. Sullivan, & M. A. 
Forrester (Eds.), Doing qualitative research in psychology: A practical 
guide (2nd ed., pp. 161-184). Sage.
N.B. It is best practice to reference a specific chapter of an edited book 
rather than the whole edited book.
N.B. If an edited eBook has a DOI, include the DOI in the reference after 
the publisher’s name.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
64
Journal Articles
A journal article is a report of academic research published in a journal – 
think of a journal as an academic magazine that contains various articles 
by different authors. Both the title of the article and the name of the 
journal are included in the reference as well as volume, issue and page 
numbers or article number (if available). A DOI is also included so the 
article can be easily located and accessed online.
Components of a Journal Article Reference
Format Examples
Journal article – One author
Wood, W. (2017). Habit in personality and social psychology. Personality 
and Social Psychology Review, 21(4), 389-403. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1088868317720362
Journal article – Two authors
Huppatz, K., & Ross-Smith, A. (2017). A discipline at the crossroads? Using 
a gender-inspired paradigm to reposition the sociology of work 
and employment. Journal of Sociology, 53(4), 756-770. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1440783317743810
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
65
Journal article – Three or more authors
Hakanen, J. J., Peeters, M. C. W., & Schaufeli, W. B. (2018). Different types 
of employee well-being across time and their relationship with job 
crafting. Journal of Occupation Health Psychology, 23(2), 289-301. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/ocp0000081
N.B. If an online/electronic journal article does not have a DOI and is from 
an academic database accessed via the library (e.g. APA PsycArticles), end 
the reference after the page range, do not include a URL.
N.B. Sometimes a journal article will list an article number instead of page 
numbers – in these cases, just list the article number after the volume/
issue number instead of the page numbers.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
66
Conference Papers/Proceedings
Conference papers are a written record of research that was presented 
at a conference. Both the title of the conference paper and the name 
of the conference are included in the reference. Conference papers are 
commonly published in a collection of proceedings so the page numbers 
that the specific paper appears on in the proceedings are also included in 
the reference as well as a DOI.
Components of a Conference Paper Reference (Published in a Journal/
Proceedings)
N.B. Conference proceedings published in a journal follow the same 
format as journal articles.
Other Format Examples
Conference presentation - Paper/poster etc.
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of conference, 
Month Day(s)). Title of paper/poster (in italics) [Type 
of contribution]. Title of Conference, Location. 
Format 
Example
Feeney, J. (2023, August 29-30). Using population 
cohort data to investigate the relationship 
between stress and healthy brain ageing 
[Conference presentation]. Neuroscience 
Ireland Conference 2023, Dublin, Ireland.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
67
N.B. Describe the presentation in square brackets after the title (e.g. 
[Conference presentation], [Paper presentation], [Poster presentation] 
etc.).
Conference proceedings - Chapter of an edited book
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
68
Components Author Surname, Initial(s)., Author Surname, 
Initial(s)., & Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of 
publication). Title of chapter. In Editor Initial(s). 
Surname (Ed(s).), Title of book series: Vol. (in italics). 
Subseries (in italics) (pp. page numbers of chapter). 
Publisher. https://doi.org/xxxx
Format 
Example
Mahmud, T., Barua, K., Barua, A., Das, S., Basnin, 
N., Hossain, M. S., Andersson, K., Kaiser, M. S., 
& Sharmen, N. (2023). Exploring deep transfer 
learning ensemble for improved diagnosis and 
classification of Alzheimer’s disease. In F. Liu, Y. 
Zhang, H. Kuai, E. F. Stephen, & H. Wang (Eds.), 
Lecture notes in computer science: Vol. 13974. 
Brain informatics (pp. 109–120). Springer. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-43075-6_10
Webpages
A webpage is a single page of information or content that is part of 
a larger collection of pages on a website. You should reference the 
exact webpage used rather than the homepage of the website; if you 
use information taken from different webpages on the same website, 
reference each webpage individually. A document from a webpage is 
a PDF document that can be accessed or downloaded via a link on a 
webpage, you should include a URL for the specific document, if possible, 
rather than the webpage it was accessed from.
Components of a Webpage Reference
Format Examples
Webpage
Santoro, H. (2023, January 1). The push for more equitable research is 
changing the field. American Psychological Association. https://
www.apa.org/monitor/2023/01/trends-inclusivity-psychologicalresearch
Document from a webpage (PDF etc.)
Sweeney, J. (2013). A strategic review of further education and training 
and the unemployed. Department of Education and Skills. https://
www.education.ie/en/Publications/Education-Reports/A-StrategicReview-of-Further-Education-and-Training-and-the-Unemployed.
pdf
N.B. For corporate/organisational authors, if the author of the webpage 
and the site name are the same, omit the publisher/website name to avoid 
repetition in the reference
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
69
Online News Articles/Blogs
An online news article is any article from the online version of a 
newspaper (e.g. The Irish Times, The Guardian, The Financial Times etc.). 
A blog is a regularly updated website that publishes informal diary-like 
articles typically authored by one person. Both sources use the same 
referencing format.
Components of an Online News Article/Blog Reference
Format Examples
Online news article
O’Connell, J. (2018, May 19). Jennifer O’Connell: Why do we live in a 
culture that venerates stress? The Irish Times. https://www.
irishtimes.com/life-and-style/people/jennifer-oconnell-why-do-welive-in-a-culture-that-venerates-stress-1.3491747
Blog
Shepard, B. (2022, December 15). How does music affect your brain? 
Livescience. https://www.livescience.com/how-does-music-affectyour-brain
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
70
APA – Additional Sources
This section provides guidance and examples on how to reference 
additional information sources that you might encounter such as social 
media, online videos, podcasts and legislation in APA style. Some of these 
sources (social media, online videos and podcasts) are not considered to 
be equivalent to high quality academic texts so you should always check 
with your lecturer before using in your assignments.
Psychological Tests/Scales
Social Media
Facebook
Components Author Surname, Initial(s)., Author Surname, 
Initial(s)., Author Surname, Initial(s)., & Author 
Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication). Title of Test/
Scale (in italics) [Database record]. Name of Database. 
https://doi.org/xxxx
Format 
Example
Pekaar, K. A., Bakker, A. B., van der Linden, D., & 
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Date of publication). 
Title of post (first 20 words, in italics) [Description of 
content] [Post type]. Platform name. URL
Format 
Example
Psychology Today. (2023, February 1). 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
71
Developing greater self-discipline, research shows, 
can deliver benefits including better health and 
a reduced propensity for risky behavior [Image 
attached] [Status update]. Facebook. https://
www.facebook.com/15687708844/posts/
Born, M. P. (2018). Rotterdam Emotional 
Intelligence Scale [Database record]. 
APA PsycTests. https://doi.org/10.1037/t66601-000
X/Instagram/TikTok
Online Videos
Podcasts
Components Author Surname, Initial(s) [X handle]. (Date of 
publication). Title of post (first 20 words, in italics) 
[Description of content] [Post type]. Platform name. 
URL
Format 
Example
American Psychological Association [@APA]. (2025, 
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Date of publication). Title 
of video (in italics) [Video]. Site name. URL
Format 
Example
Little, B. (2016, July 19). Who are you, really? The
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Host(s)). (Date aired). 
Title of episode (in italics) [Audio podcast]. Name of 
Podcast. URL
Format 
Example
Vedantam, S. (Host). (2018, May 15). The surprising
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
72
March 29). #Kindness toward others can boost 
our physical and mental health—and research 
suggests an uptick in generosity in recent years
[Image attached] [Post]. https://x.com/APA/
status/1905999159011770539 
puzzle of personality [Video]. YouTube. https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYvXk_bqlBk
benefit of moving and grooving with your kid 
[Audio podcast]. National Public Radio. https://
www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2018/05/15 
/610448906/the-surprising-benefit-of-moving-andgrooving-with-your-kid
Encyclopedias/Dictionaries 
Print 
Online
N.B. When an online reference work (e.g. APA Dictionary of Psychology) is 
continuously updated, use “n.d.” as the year of publication and include a 
retrieval date.
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication). Title 
of entry. In Editor Initial(s). Editor Surname, & Editor 
Initial(s). Editor Surname (Eds.) (if applicable), Name 
of encyclopedia/dictionary (in italics) (edition if given). 
Publisher.
Format 
Example
Gorman, L. (2011). Online social networking. In G. 
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication). Title 
of entry. In Name of encyclopedia/dictionary (in italics). 
Retrieved date, from URL
Format 
Example
American Psychological Association. (n.d.). Anxiety. 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
73
Ritzer, & J. M. Ryan (Eds.), The concise 
encyclopedia of sociology. Wiley-Blackwell.
In APA dictionary of psychology. Retrieved June 
16, 2023, from https://dictionary.apa.org/anxiety
Legislation 
Acts
EU Directives
Components Title (include section of legislation if specified in-text), 
Source (if available), (Year of publication). URL (if 
available)
Format 
Example
Social Welfare Act, Government of Ireland, (2017). 
Components European Union Author(s). (Year of publication). Title 
of Directive (in italics). [Details of Directive]. URL
Format 
Example
European Parliament, Council of the European
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
74
http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2017/act/38/
enacted/en/html
Union. (2014). Directive 2014/95/EU of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 
2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards 
disclosure of non-financial and diversity information 
by certain large undertakings and groups. [EU 
Directive 2014/95/EU]. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/
legalcontent/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32014L0095
Theses/Dissertations
N.B. It is generally not recommended to reference theses/dissertations unless 
commenting on their own research - it is better practice to access the sources 
they have used and reference those sources directly, particularly if you are 
consulting a recent thesis/dissertation.
Lecture Notes
It is not recommended to directly reference lecture notes or slides; ideally, 
you should be using these as a starting point to explore the books and 
resources discussed and highlighted in class and provide evidence to your 
lecturer of wider reading and research.
Diagrams/Charts/Images/Tables
Follow the format for the type of source from which the diagram/chart/
image/table is taken, i.e. a book/eBook, journal article, webpage etc.
N.B. If you use the exact same diagram/chart/image/table as featured within 
the source, make sure to give the exact caption title and put the in-text 
citation just beneath the diagram/chart/image/table with a page number (if 
applicable).
Software 
Generally, common or standard software (e.g. SPSS, Word, Excel, Java, 
Adobe, Photoshop etc.) does not need to be referenced.
Components Author Surname, Initial(s). (Year of publication). Title
Format 
Example
Matthews, J. (2022). The impact of access to verbal 
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
75
of thesis/dissertation (in italics) [Doctoral/
Master’s/Bachelor’s thesis/dissertation, Awarding 
institution]. Database/repository. URL
language on working memory: A study of working 
memory on profoundly deaf adults [Bachelor’s 
dissertation, National College of Ireland]. 
NORMA. https://norma.ncirl.ie/5662/
APA – Additional Notes
Formulating References
References can always be typed manually, following the examples 
contained within this guide. However, there is also reference management 
software such as Mendeley or Zotero and numerous websites that can 
assist you in formulating references for most of the core sources in APA 
style. Microsoft Word also has a built-in referencing tool; however, it only 
includes APA 6th edition so you may need to update references manually 
to reflect the 7th edition.
See page 26-28 of this guide and the online Referencing and Avoiding 
Plagiarism guide for further information.
N.B. Referencing tools are not always accurate so always double check 
your references are correct according to APA style requirements as 
outlined in this guide.
Block Quotations
While the use of direct quotations should be kept to a minimum in your 
work, sometimes it may be necessary to provide a longer quotation 
(longer than approximately 30-40 words) particularly when recording 
excerpts of interviews in thesis work. In these cases, quotation marks 
are not used; instead, the entire quotation is indented and single spaced 
with a blank line above and below. If you choose to omit some part of a 
quotation, then indicate this by inserting three spaced dots (. . .) in place 
of the removed text.
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
76
No Known Author
Sometimes there is no formal information about the author. This may 
occur because the author is not known, or the publisher/organisation 
is considered the author. In this case, the name of the publisher/
organisation should be used as the author both in-text and in the 
reference list.
If there is no known author (person, publisher or organisation) to credit, 
then it is not advisable to use the source as it may not be the best quality.
DOIs/Permalinks
When referencing online resources such as journal articles or webpages, 
you are required to include a URL (or link) in the reference, this is 
important for two main reasons:
● To make it easier for your reader to access the sources you used 
and verify the information for themselves
● To demonstrate that you have used good quality, legitimate 
academic resources
There are two main types of URLs that are commonly included in 
references for online resources, DOIs and Permalinks.
What is a DOI?
A DOI, or Digital Object Identifier, is a series of numbers, letters and 
symbols used to permanently identify a digital resource. DOIs give a digital 
resource (journal article, conference paper, document or eBook) a unique, 
persistent identifier that does not change, allowing your reader to easily 
access the resource online.
Where to find a DOI
DOIs always start with 10 and can be found either on the record page 
(if searching on Discovery or in a database) or within the resource itself 
(often on the first page or in the header or footer of a journal article).
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
77
N.B. Not all articles or resources have a DOI.
How to include a DOI in a reference
You can include a DOI at the end of a reference to allow your reader to 
easily access the resource online. See below for an example of how to 
include a DOI in an APA style journal article reference:
Authors Referring to Other Authors – Secondary Referencing
In academic sources, authors commonly refer to other authors. This can 
be difficult to navigate when referencing in your written work – see our 
advice below:
● If possible, try and locate the original author/source of the 
information referred to and then you can access and reference it 
directly
● Avoid referencing a source that you have not directly accessed and 
read yourself, i.e. you have only found it within another source – to 
do so, gives a false idea of the sources you have actually read and 
used for your assignment
● Try and use a passage of text that does not refer to other authors 
at all, this allows you to credit the main authors of the source you 
are reading directly and eliminates the need to credit other authors 
mentioned in the text
N.B. APA advice is to try and avoid secondary referencing and instead 
locate and reference the primary source of the information directly.
Reference 
example
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
78
Huppatz, K., & Ross-Smith, A. (2017). A discipline at
https://doi.org/10.1177/1440783317743810
the crossroads? Using a gender-inspired 
paradigm to reposition the sociology of work and 
employment. Journal of Sociology, 53(4), 756-770. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1440783317743810
 DOI format
Citing Multiple Sources In-Text – Alphabetical, Then 
Chronological Order
When providing multiple citations, list the citations first alphabetically, 
then chronologically, separated by a semi-colon. 
Note that the order is strictly alphabetical, but where two papers have the 
same author(s), then the citations are chronologically ordered (earliest 
first).
Acronyms or Abbreviations
An acronym or abbreviation can be used for a source with a corporate or 
organisational author to which you refer frequently. Provide the full name 
of the author the first time it appears in the text, and then you can use the 
abbreviation thereafter both in your text and as part of an in-text citation.
Only the full name (e.g. American Psychological Association) should 
feature in the reference list.
Identical In-Text References When Shortened Using Et Al.
When referencing authors in-text that shorten to the same author and the 
same year when using et al., add extra authors to the references until they 
show a difference, e.g.
(Wang, Zhang, et al., 2017)
(Wang, Chen, et al., 2017)
N.B. There is a comma before the et al. in this circumstance.
Example In the last 30 years the department has carried out 
four major surveys (Abbott & Smith, 1988; Brown, 
1996, 1999; Smith, 1981).
Example The American Psychological Association (APA) outlined the most recent referencing guidelines for the 
APA style in the Publication Manual (APA, 2019).
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
79
Reference List Tips
● The reference list should begin on a new page; all references 
should be double spaced and the second and subsequent lines 
of each individual reference should have hanging indents
● All references should be listed alphabetically by the primary 
author’s surname or family name (regardless of the order you 
referred to them in your text). If the author is a company or 
organisation, this is also listed alphabetically with the other 
sources; there is no division of source types, all sources are 
listed together
● You should list all sources that you have referenced within your 
written work, ensuring that the dates and spellings of authors’ 
names are consistent in the text and the reference list
● Different works by the same author are arranged in date order 
(the earliest work is first)
● When you have multiple references with the same author 
and year, you can differentiate between them by inserting a 
letter next to the year both in-text and in the reference list, 
e.g. (Smith, 2025a) and (Smith, 2025b). In the reference list, 
list the references with the same author and the same year, 
alphabetically by title, apply the labels based on this order 
and then add the correct label to the corresponding in-text 
citation(s) so it is clear which of the sources you are referring to 
in text
● Do not number or bullet point the reference list entries
● Do not include a source in your reference list that you have not 
read yourself, i.e. it has only been referred to in another source 
you read
See the sample APA reference list on the following pages
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
80
APA – Sample Reference List
Reference List
American Psychiatric Association. (2022). Diagnostic and statistical manual 
of mental disorders (5th ed., text rev.).
Aronson, E., Wilson, T. D., & Sommers, S. R. (2020). Social psychology (10th 
global ed.). Pearson.
Feeney, J. (2023, August 29-30). Using population cohort data to 
investigate the relationship between stress and healthy brain ageing
[Conference presentation]. Neuroscience Ireland Conference 2023, 
Dublin, Ireland.
Freeman, L., & Sullivan, C. (2019) Thematic analysis. In C. Sullivan, & M. A. 
Forrester (Eds.), Doing qualitative research in psychology: A practical 
guide (2nd ed., pp. 161-184). Sage.
Hakanen, J. J., Peeters, M. C. W., & Schaufeli, W. B. (2018). Different types 
of employee well-being across time and their relationship with job 
crafting. Journal of Occupation Health Psychology, 23(2), 289-301. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/ocp0000081
Howitt, D., & Cramer, D. (2020). Research methods in psychology (6th ed.). 
Pearson.
Huppatz, K., & Ross-Smith, A. (2017). A discipline at the crossroads? Using 
a gender-inspired paradigm to reposition the sociology of work 
and employment. Journal of Sociology, 53(4), 756-770. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1440783317743810
Kalat, J. W. (2021). Introduction to psychology (12th ed.). Cengage.
Mahmud, T., Barua, K., Barua, A., Das, S., Basnin, N., Hossain, M. S., 
Andersson, K., Kaiser, M. S., & Sharmen, N. (2023). Exploring 
deep transfer learning ensemble for improved diagnosis and 
classification of Alzheimer’s disease. In F. Liu, Y. Zhang, H. Kuai, E. 
F. Stephen, & H. Wang (Eds.), Lecture notes in computer science: 
Vol. 13974. Brain informatics (pp. 109–120). Springer. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-031-43075-6_10
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
81
O’Connell, J. (2018, May 19). Jennifer O’Connell: Why do we live in a 
culture that venerates stress? The Irish Times. https://www.
irishtimes.com/life-and-style/people/jennifer-oconnell-why-do-welive-in-a-culture-that-venerates-stress-1.3491747
Patil, G., Patil, T., & Wagh, K. (2023). Bridging neuroscience and minds: 
Exploring collective intelligence through brain duplication using 
AI. 2023 31st Irish Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive 
Science (AICS), 1-4. https://doi.org/10.1109/AICS60730.2023.10470727
Santoro, H. (2023, January 1). The push for more equitable research is 
changing the field. American Psychological Association. https://
www.apa.org/monitor/2023/01/trends-inclusivity-psychologicalresearch
Shepard, B. (2022, December 15). How does music affect your brain? 
Livescience. https://www.livescience.com/how-does-music-affectyour-brain
Sturgis, P. (2020). Surveys and sampling. In G. M. Breakwell, D. B. Wright, 
& J. Barnett (Eds.), Research methods in psychology (5th ed., pp. 
373-393). Sage.
Sweeney, J. (2013). A strategic review of further education and training 
and the unemployed. Department of Education and Skills. https://
www.education.ie/en/Publications/Education-Reports/A-StrategicReview-of-Further-Education-and-Training-and-the-Unemployed.
pdf
Wood, W. (2017). Habit in personality and social psychology. Personality 
and Social Psychology Review, 21(4), 389-403. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1088868317720362
NCI Library Referencing and Avoiding Plagiarism Guide
82
IEEE Style
The IEEE referencing style is widely used in the areas of computer science, 
software development and information technology and is required by 
a number of modules in the School of Computing in NCI. The IEEE style 
acknowledges a source at the exact point where it is used within the text 
of your written work and then provides the full bibliographic details in a 
list of references at the end, which is titled References. 
Getting Started
Referencing Format
IEEE style is a numerical system rather than an author-date system like 
Harvard and APA. In IEEE style, in-text citations are numbered in square 
brackets in the order in which they appear in the text. The first source 
cited is numbered [1], the second [2] and so on. Each reference number 
should be enclosed in square brackets on the same line as the text, before 
any punctuation, with a space before the bracket.
Once a source has been given a number, the same number is used 
whenever 