Source: https://www.ncirl.ie/Portals/0/Admissions/2020/Reg%20Booklet%202020_FINAL.pdf
Title: NCI Registration Booklet 2020

Contents
Welcome to NCI
Introduction
Academic Calendar
I've received an offer, what happens now?
I've accepted my offer, what next?
Online Registration
Students Fees - A guide
Psychology Students: NC010
Enrolment & IT session
Orientation
Registration Summary
What if I want to Defer my Place
DARE and HEAR applicants
Life at NCI
Enrolment and Orientation

WELCOME TO NCI
I am delighted to welcome you as a student to National College of Ireland. I hope your time
with us will be both enjoyable and rewarding. This Handbook provides you with a step by
step guide on how to register online and gain access to the many services and supports
available to you as a student here at National College of Ireland. The handbook will provide
you with information on the Registration, Enrolment and Orientation Programmes.

Academic Calendar
Calendar 2020/21 From To
Enrolment Online
Orientation 21/09/2020 25/09/2020
Semester 1 28/09/2020 18/12/2020
Reading Week 09/11/2020 13/11/2020
Semester 1- Exams 05/01/2021 16/01/2021
Semester 2 23/01/2021 30/04/2021
Reading Week 15/03/2021 20/03/2021
Easter Holidays 02/04/2021 09/04/2021
Semester 2 - Exams 07/05/2021 22/05/2021
Repeat Exams 12/08/2021 28/08/2021

I've received an offer, what happens now?
CAO Applicants: Your offer of a place was made through the Central Applications Office (CAO) so you must accept
through the CAO. Please carefully read the offer acceptance procedure which the CAO have provided you with.
Direct/Mature Applicants: You may have already received an offer email from NCI. If you have not yet received an offer email,
please contact the Admissions Office at admissions@ncirl.ie. To accept your place please contact
us on 1850 221 721 or email us at admissions@ncirl.ie. You must contact us by 19th August 2020 at the very latest to accept your offer.

I've accepted my offer, what next?
Your CAO application number is now your student number. Your username will be, for example,
x12345678. Once you have accepted your offer from the CAO, you will be required to reset your
password. You can reset your password 48 hours after accepting your place by following the Setting Your Password guide on the New Students section of the NCI website.

Online Registration
All full-time undergraduate students must register and pay fees online. Due to current Government
guidelines registration will not take place on campus this year. Before you start this process please make sure you
have the following to hand: this booklet, a credit/debit card, your login details.
CAO applicants MUST register online within one week of accepting their CAO offer.
Direct/Mature applicants MUST register online before 31st August.
If your fees are not paid within this timeframe, a late charge of 75 euro will apply. Your IT accounts and
access to the library will also be suspended after this date if payment is not received.
How do I access online registration? To begin online registration, go to the New Students section on the NCI website:
http://www.ncirl.ie/newstudents and click on "Full Time Registration and Orientation". On this site, you will find a step by step
'Getting Started' guide. Click on "Step 2 - Register & Pay Course Fees". Enter your student number and password.
If you encounter any problems when accessing the MyDetails section please contact the IT Support Desk by email at itsupport@ncirl.ie.

Student fees - A guide
This section is applicable to all students excluding BA Hons in Psychology students.
Tuition Fees: Most undergraduate students attending publicly funded third level courses do not have to pay
tuition fees, under the terms of the free fees initiative. There are eligibility criteria which you
must meet in order to be eligible for free fees, these will be assessed during online registration.
Student Grant 2020: Student Universal Support Ireland (SUSI) is the awarding authority for all student grant
applications. All students who are applying for the student grant must apply through SUSI.
Student Contribution Fee (SCF): The SCF must be paid by all students. The SCF for the 2020/21 academic year is 3000 euro.
If you have applied for the student grant through SUSI you are not required to pay the SCF to register online. However you must provide the
college with confirmation that you have made an application to SUSI for the grant at enrolment.
If proof of a funding application is not provided to the Fees Office by September 29th, then the following payments must be made:
20% of SCF (600 euro) immediately, 30% of SCF (900 euro) by 15th November 2020, Balance of SCF (1500 euro) at the start of the second semester.
The 80 euro gym membership fee must be paid by all students. The grant does not cover this cost.
Fees can be paid online by Credit/Debit Card. We do not accept American Express. We do not accept cash.

Psychology Students: NC010
This section is applicable ONLY to students who have been offered and accepted a place on NC010 - BA Hons in Psychology.
The BA (Hons) in Psychology is not covered under the free fees initiative. The fee for the course is 5900 euro per annum.
Students must also pay a gym membership fee of 80 euro per annum. There is an easy payment plan for the course: 20% deposit
plus gym membership fee to register, followed by 8 monthly instalments of 590 euro each. The first direct debit is scheduled to come out on 5th October.
Psychology students cannot use the online registration service.

Enrolment
Enrolment for all autumn 2020 students will take place online. To ensure you are ready for your first semester you must:
set your student log-in details, pay fees and register online, submit your student ID photo in order to obtain your student card,
confirm your course start date and timetable. Your student card is a vital part of your student life. From September 2020,
students will not be permitted to enter the college building without a valid student card. You will also need your student card
to enter the College library, for printing and photocopying, for identification purposes and for student discounts.
In order to obtain your student card, you must provide a student ID photo, taken via a photo app on a smartphone or laptop.

HEA Student Data Collection Notice
NCI is required to collect data from students, and pass this data to the Higher Education Authority
in order for them to perform their statutory functions under the Higher Education Authority Act, 1971.

Orientation
Orientation for first year students will take place online in the week beginning 21st September. Each course is assigned a
separate date and time for orientation. Orientation is compulsory and extremely important to attend. It will help you to
familiarise yourself with the layout of the College and will give you an opportunity to meet your new classmates.
Students who were deemed eligible under the DARE and HEAR scheme MUST also attend a supplementary orientation.

What if I want to defer my place?
Deferrals for autumn 2020 will be granted for medical reasons only. If you wish to apply for a deferral based on medical grounds:
do NOT accept the offer of a place through the CAO, email admissions@ncirl.ie immediately with your CAO application number and course code,
mark 'DEFERRED ENTRY' clearly in the subject line. Deferral requests must be accompanied by supporting documentation such as a
hospital or doctor's note. If the deferral is granted, to take up the deferred place you must reapply through the CAO for the following year's entry.

DARE and HEAR
DARE (Disability Access Route to Education): National College of Ireland believes that one of the most important first steps for
students with disabilities is to be sure that you can access supports in an open, relaxed, friendly and confidential manner.
Students who have applied via DARE and were deemed eligible will be contacted by the Disability Support Officer to arrange a meeting.
HEAR students and online registration: Students who have been deemed eligible under HEAR must indicate during online
registration that they have applied for SUSI funding. As a HEAR student you are only required at this time to pay the 80 euro Gym
Membership Fee in order to be registered.

Life at NCI
Getting to NCI: NCI's central location means it is serviced by a number of different methods of public transport, including the
Luas red line stop at Mayor Street, Connolly Station (a five minute walk), and Dublin Bus services.
Student Attendance: NCI considers attendance to be a serious part of a student's life at the college and expects each
student to attend all their respective learning events. Student attendance is recorded and reviewed.
Student Leaders: The Student Leader Programme is designed to specifically help new students of the College. Each year,
12 current NCI students are chosen to help make the transition to college life easier by providing guidance and support.
Mathematics Support Service: provides an informal environment for students who are experiencing difficulties where they can
improve their understanding of and confidence in mathematical concepts. Free to all students in NCI.
Learning Support: The Learning Support Service is centred around academic writing, reading, researching, studying,
note-taking, exam revision and aiding students in all areas of academic advancement.
Disability Support: Please contact the Disability Support Officer to arrange a first meeting by calling 01 6599269.
Medical and Counselling Service: National College of Ireland provides a subsidised medical service to all full-time registered
students at the Hanover Medical Centre. Students are charged 15 euro per appointment and the balance is paid by the College.
IT Facilities and Services: The NCI IT Department is responsible for providing IT Services and Support to all students.
The best way to contact the IT Support Desk is to log a ticket via NCI360. Tel: 01 4498671 / 01-4498667. Online: https://itsupport.ncirl.ie/hc/en-ie
Library: The Norma Smurfit Library in National College of Ireland will provide you with the key academic material needed
in order to make your college career a success. Your student card will become your library card.
Photocopying: Printing and photocopying in National College of Ireland is charged to students using a credit management
system linked to your Network account and Student ID card. All new students receive 5 euro printing credit on commencement of term.

Supplementary Access Orientation Schedule for DARE and HEAR Students
If you were deemed eligible under either the DARE or HEAR scheme, you are invited to a supplementary orientation covering
general support services available to students, transition and studying tips, welfare and financial advice.
There will also be an information session for parents of prospective students, covering Fees, SUSI, Admissions, Deferrals,
Progressions, Student Supports and Exams.
