Source: https://www.ncirl.ie/Portals/0/Admissions/Springboard/Student%20Card%20App%20Guide.pdf
Title: How To Obtain Your Student Card

To print your student card, the college requires a passport style photograph. Please note that any photos submitted
alongside applications are used during the application process only. The college requires an additional photo for
student identification use. Students can take this photo using a SmartPhone or Desktop/Laptop.

From a SmartPhone (Android or IPhone)
Install the 'PowerApps' application to your smartphone from the Play Store on android phones or Apple Store on Iphones.
PowerApps may require access to certain information and applications on your phone, including your camera. Please ensure
that you accept these access requirements. The first time you log into PowerApps, you will be required to sign in with your
NCI email account (x followed by your student number @ncirl.ie, for example x12345678@student.ncirl.ie).
You will be brought to the NCI PowerApps page where you will be asked to enter your network password. Upon signing in,
you will reach the PowerApps homepage. Please click on the blue camera icon titled "My NCI Profile Picture".
To upload your photo, you must allow the app permission to use the camera on your phone.

Student Card Photo Requirements
Clear, sharp and in focus. Head straight to camera and show full front view as you would normally appear.
Your expression should be neutral. Sunglasses and hats should not be worn and only head coverings worn for
religious reasons are permitted. Background should be a plain, light coloured background. There should be no
other person in the photograph.

Once you are happy with your photo, please tick the box agreeing to the usage of your image as described in NCI's
Data Protection Policy and then press submit. Your photo will now be sent for approval by the Admissions Office.
You will receive confirmation of whether your photo has been approved within two working days. Please note that
following the submission of your photo, you will not have the opportunity to submit a new photograph. Following
submission, all approved student photographs are final.

From a Desktop or Laptop
Please be aware that your desktop or laptop should have access to a camera. Log into Office 365
(https://login.microsoftonline.com). You will be required to sign in with your NCI email account. You will be
brought to the NCI Office 365 sign in page where you will be asked to enter your network password. Once you have
logged into Office 365, all available apps will be displayed. Please select the PowerApps icon, or click the top
left-hand side Office 365 apps icon and display the dropdown menu of applications, then click the PowerApps icon.
On the PowerApps homepage, please click on the blue camera icon titled "My NCI Profile Picture". You will be
brought to the My NCI Profile Picture Homepage. Please use the camera in this page to take your student card
identification photo, following the same Student Card Photo Requirements listed above.
